[Draft] Mixxx 2.4 press information / release blogpost (#304)
mixxxdj/website: content/news/XX-XX-XXXX-mixxx-2-4-0-features.md

title: Mixxx 2.4 Release
authors: Jörg Wartenberg
status: draft
tags: release, 2.4
comments: yes

We are proud to announce Mixxx 2.4, which will be released NEXT WEEK, a new major version of our free open source DJ software. It took about two years since the last release due to the large number of new features and changes under the hood.

Here you can find some highlights of the Mixxx 2.4 features:

### EngineOS export

> Mixxx 2.4 adds support for exporting crates, playlists and the library to Engine OS devices ( Denon and Numark standalone controllers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mixxx 2.4 adds support for exporting crates, playlists and the library to Engine DJ OS devices (Denon and Numark standalone controllers).
```

This allows users to prepare their tracks on a laptop using Mixxx, export them on an USB stick and plug it to the standalone controller at your gig.

### Saved Loops

> Mixxx 2.4 adds support for Saved loops

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mixxx 2.4 adds support for Saved Loops
```

If you have already tracks with Saved Loops defined by Serato DJ, Mixxx 2.4 will automatically read them from the track metadata.

### Effects
Mixxx 2.4 introduces Effect Chains, a set of effects with parameters which can be saved and loaded with all it's parameters.
In the effect units, Mixxx 2.4 visualizes these effect parameter by value, unit and knob position.

> If you've defined an Effect Chain, you can also load it as Quick-Effect, where you have only one knob to control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've created  an Effect Chain, you can also define individual Super Knob mappings, that allows to use it as Quick-Effect, where you take creative control with a single knob.
```

### Sync
Mixxx 2.4 adds support to set an explicit leader for sync, by click on the new button with the crown symbol next to the Sync button.

> This mode is useful when tracks have variable BPM and sync is enabled, all the decks will follow the changing BPM of the sync leader.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this mode and with sync enabled, all the decks will follow the tempo of the selected sync leader even if it has dynamic tempo. 
```

Author: IMHO the originial sentence better explains the purpose of this feature

Reviewer 2: I agree, "dynamic tempo" is used nowhere else in the user-facing strings and docs as far as I know.

### Track Menu
The track menu in Mixxx 2.4 is extended by several new features:

> -An action to select loaded track in library
> -An action to analyze/re-analyze with variable/constant BPM on a per-track basis
> -An action for looking up track metadata at Discogs, Soundcoud and LastFM
> -An action to remove track files from disk

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An action to select loaded track in library
- An action to analyze/re-analyze with variable/constant BPM on a per-track basis
- An action for looking up track metadata at Discogs, Soundcoud and LastFM
- An action to remove track files from disk
```

### Many other changes

#### Soundstrecher / Key-Shift-Algorithms

> Mixxx 2.4 supports now 3 alternative Key-Shift-Algorithms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mixxx 2.4 supports now 3 alternative Key-Shift algorithms
```

> - Soundtouch (Basic audio quality - high performance)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Soundtouch (Basic audio quality - low hardware requirements)
```

Author: Technical correct, we should really make sure, that no first time users get disapointed immediately by the performance of Mixxx due to Rubberband. How do we achieve this best?

- Rubberband R3 (HIFI audio quality - very high CPU usage)

#### Major rework of the Waveform Rendering code
Solves some long lasting performance issue, especially on macOS.

#### Native macOS ARM builds for M1/M2 Apple silicon

#### Controller Backend
ES6 based controller mapping system
HID backend rework

## Mixxx 2.4 Factsheet

Supported platforms:
- Windows7 or later on x64 processors
- macOS 10.12 or later on x64 processors
- macOS 11.0 or later on ARM processors (M1/M2 Apple silicon)
- Ubuntu Linux 20.4 or later (other Linux distributions are supported by third-parties)

Supported controllers:
- Mappings for 100 MIDI controllers included
- Mappings for 100 HID controllers included

## Media information
Test builds of Mixxx 2.4 can be found here before the final release:
https://mixxx.org/download/#beta

The manual for Mixxx 2.4 can be found here:
https://manual.mixxx.org/2.4/en/

Images for media use
High-Resolution images of the Mixxx logo can be downloaded here:
https://mixxx.org/press/logo

Full-Resolution images of the Mixxx 2.4 screenshots above can be downloaded here:
https://mixxx.org/tbd

Press contact
Feel free to contact us via:

> press@mixxx.org

Reviewer: This is currently a group with @rryan @ywwg @Pegasus-RPG @daschuer 
I have just added me. Who else likes to join?

Author: Add me!

Reviewer: Done.

title: Mixxx 2.4 Release
authors: Jörg Wartenberg
status: draft
tags: release, 2.4
comments: yes

## Mixxx 2.4

> Mixxx 2.4 is our next major release shipping the work of 2 years continuous development on features, code refacturing and bug fixing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mixxx 2.4 is our next major release shipping the work of 2 years continuous development on new features, code refactoring and other improvements.
```
I would like to have the bug fixes not emphasized here, because all important have gone to 2.3 branch which is of cause included.

Author: Was changed already
